it's no secret the consensus number one
pick this year's NBA Draft is John Wall
but what exactly has everyone buzzin in
a word speed to find out just how quick
John Wall really is we'll put him to the
test right here in the sports science
lab to test his quickness off the
dribble from the top of the key our
smart speed timing gates will prompt
John to either cut right or left first
as a baseline we have John run the test
without a ball three two one
John reacts to the directional cue and
on average gets to the basket in 2.8
seconds then we gave him the ball
he reacts to the light trigger in only
253 milliseconds that's faster than a
cheetah takes a single stride at top
speed in just two steps
John accelerates to almost 50% of his
top speed and cuts around the gate to
the basket in less than 2.9 seconds
incredibly dribbling a ball slows John
down on average by less than five
hundredths of a second in fact wall is
even faster with the ball then Kevin
Durant runs without the ball and
incredibly in a straight sprint at his
top here John Wall is brought out faster
than NBA all-stars Chris Paul and Deron
Williams that kind of crazy speed is why
John Wall could make a big impact in the
NBA from day one for sports science on
ESPN
I'm John Brenkus